Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn the bitwise
XOR operator
So the bitwise XOR operator  takes equal length
binary sequence and perform bitwise XOR operation
on each pair of bits
So this is the truth table for that.
And if we have 0 and 0 then this operator
will return 0
And if we have 0 and 1 then the result
is 1 and if we have 1 and 0 then
also the result is 1
And finally if you have both the value 1 then
the result is 0.
So simply saying if you have different values for the
pair of bits then you get a 1 and if we
have the same value for both the bits then you
get 0
So see an example. Take 5 and 9 Let us
perform bitwise XOR operator  on 5 and 9
But these are decimal numbers so first we need to
convert them into binary numbers
And we know the equivalent of decimal 5
that is equal to 101. And for 9 it is
equal to 1001 and we need equal length binary
sequence So add a 0 to the left of 101 And we
got 0101. Now we can perform bitwise XOR
So take the first pair of bits which is 1 and 1
and we have the truth table so we got
Zero and next
pair is zero and zero again we get zero
Next is 1 and 0
So that's different values
So we get 1
And finally we have 0 and 1. Again different values
So we get 1 and the result of bitwise XOR
operation between 5 and 9
is 1100 whose binary equivalent is 12. Now an interesting
fact is that if we again perform XOR on the
above result 12 with 9 we will get 5 back
And because of this property it was used in cryptography
Now see the code to implement this. In the main
function we are declaring two integers A and B which
are equal to 5 and 9
Then we are calculating output equal to A bitwise XOR B
So
bitwise XOR will be performed and the results will
be stored in output
Now we are printing the value of output which will
be 12
So that's it. Now let us discuss about the application of
bitwise XOR
So as we discussed, it was used in cryptography
So let's say we have two persons who are friends
and they share a common Key here which is 9
And now they are continents apart
And if they want to share a secret message they
can make use of bitwise XOR.
So this person wants to share the number 5 but
it should be a secret
So he performs bit wise XOR on this number 5
and the key 9 and he gets 12 and that
is sent to his friend
And when this is received by him he also have
the key 9
So he performs bitwise
XOR
on received number 12 and the key 9 and he gets
the original number 5
So that is how bitwise XOR can be
used in  crypytography
So that's all and thank you for watching this video